### [ Back to the Technique Page](../technique.html)

 <header>Cha Cha/Rumba Checked Forward Walk
----------------------------------

 </header>Use this type of Forward Walk to end a forward progression, followed by weight transference backward. It is a requirement on figures such as step 1 of a Man's Basic.

 <table> <tbody><tr> <td style="width:15%">1-2</td> <td style="width:70%"> Dance 1-2 of a [Forward Walk](cr_walks_fwd.html) </td> <td class="auto-style1">4 1 &amp; a</td> </tr> <tr> <td>3</td> <td>Continue to settle the R shoulder weight, hip rotation to R and rib cage to move to L side, LF forward with toe in light contact with the floor and knee flexed, then (after the foot has passed under the body) to the ball of foot. There will be a gradual increase of pressure of contact on the floor until the heel lowers and the knee straightens just before the extend of the stride, creating a position of split weight; both knees straight with LF turned out 1/8 to L.</td> <td class="auto-style1">2</td> </tr> <tr> <td>4</td> <td>Commence to rotate hips to L, gaining a position of centre to allow all the muscular blocks of the body to be in a vertical line of balance as body weight continues to move slightly forward to Check; weight almost over the straight L leg. R knee closes into the side of the L knee to support this split weight position. Due to the extra turn out of the LF, the RF will turn in from the previous turned out position by 1/16 turn to L, to end pointing down the track of movement.</td> <td class="auto-style1">&amp;</td> </tr> <tr> <td>5</td> <td>Commence to settle the L shoulder weight, allowing the hips to commence to rotate to the L and lower rib cage to move to R, creating a very slight movement of head and body forward, before the weight commences to move backward.</td> <td class="auto-style1">a</td> </tr> <tr> <td>6</td> <td>Commence to rotate hips to R, rib cage to L side, transfer split weight back to RF on ball of foot, straightening R knee; RF turned out by 1/16 to R. The tone is retained in the extended L leg, the foot turned out by approximately 1/16 to L, maintaining slight pressure on the outside edge of toe.</td> <td class="auto-style1">3</td> </tr> <tr> <td>7</td> <td>Continue slight rotation of hips to R, transfer full weight backward to RF, lowering heel, gaining a position of centre to allow all of the muscular blocks of the body to be in a vertical line of balance.</td> <td class="auto-style1">&amp;</td> </tr> </tbody></table>